When it comes to setting up an experimental design,
one mnemonic that can be used to guide its creation is smart.
This mnemonic was originally created in
the context of project planning for companies and teams,
but it also applies pretty well two experiments.
Each letter in smart stands for
a different criteria that the experiment specifications should achieve.
The goals of your experiment must be specific.
There must be a way to measure outcomes objectively.
Your goal and the steps that you take towards that goal,
both must be achievable.
Your experiment should be relevant to the larger goals of the organization,
and finally the experiment should be completable in a timely fashion.
The points and the mnemonic won't cover every part of experiment design.
So, don't rely on it too much.
For example, it doesn't tell you if you've got sources of
bias or if the experiment conforms to ethical guidelines.
Instead, it's best as a sanity check.
A top-level guide to make sure major design concepts are covered.